Softly Into the Night:

I posted last week about my game for the first time, and now I have this working title for my sci-fi roguelike. Obviously this title may change if the theme does not suit it. However I want there to be a title that you can put to my game so I'm not just calling it "my game," and we can start to envision the direction it will go and give it some form. I have several different ideas for the theme and overall story of the game, and I'm not sure which to go with just yet. I will share a few of the possible scenarios I have come up with, and I would love to hear what you guys think.

You are a rebel citizen of a booming sci-fi metropolis-planet. With the help of your rebel allies, you infiltrate the corporate headquarters of an elite organization and attempt to recover some information from within the super high-security vaults, or alternately assassinate the president of the organization and select members from his cabinet. A twist is that you have to give the illusion of continuing a normal citizen's life, using various tricks (an "unregistered" rogue ally could fill in for your job duties while you are away, for example). In addition, you have to come back into "town" each night to avoid raising suspicion. Suspicion could be like "heat" and the more you have, the more enemies come after you. In town, you can purchase stolen equipment (and/or get gifts) from your rogue allies, as well as recover your wounds and make plans for the next day. You would have a real base with the rogues that is safe and hidden from the enemy, at least for now...

You are a villager of a medieval town; perhaps you can choose to start as a blacksmith, a soldier, shoemaker, etc. various medieval professions. Your world is flipped on its head when you are transported in space and time to an alien world full of incomprehensibilities. You are not welcomed by the majority of the denizens of this new world; they regard you a rogue. At the start of each game, everything in the world is fully unidentified and you must use your wits to identify the alien forms around you and survive. This would be a brutal game, ending in cases like: your character becomes a famous attraction at a zoo; you are sucked dry by swarms of mosquitos the size of softballs; you are poisoned by eating local flora, or by inhaling their off-gases; or you are sacrificed in a volcano by savage religious zealots. Your only hope is that you are a genius who can learn things very fast, and this world happens to be survivable by humans. Your goal, seemingly impossible, is to make it back home.

You live in a futuristic "utopia" where magic and technology are one. Life is perfect for you and everyone you know. You have heard tales, ghost-stories, of sewer people who live under the surface of the city, under the subways. These ghosts are believed-in by folks about as much as ghosts are in the real world -- but the ghosts in this world are real, and you discover this one day. You recognize that you are a part of a wealthy elite class of citizens who have been led to believe that everyone was equal. As it turns out, the vast majority of the human race now lives underground, ankle-deep in shit. You go rogue in an attempt to reveal this secret to your society. You are arrested by the police and thrown deep, deep into the earth, below even the sewers, where hellish creatures reside. They were once men. You have been thrown down here to join them. You must escape.

Unfortunately I haven't had much time to work on Softly these past few days.

Changes since last week:

I have made improvements to the hearing system as it relates to the message log. For now, sounds are simply not registered if their source is in view. This might change as there may be a need for certain sounds to be recorded even when in view, such as a sonic bomb going off. That would certainly not be ignorable by anyone nearby with ears.

There were two different strings of text that would play for each type of sound: one for close-by sounds that were clearly audible, and another string for that same sound but less clear. An example is "a fire cackling," and "popping noises." "Popping noises" is obviously vague, and the intent was that multiple different kinds of sounds could all be heard as "popping noises" and the player had to be smart to decide what the source could be.

But, anyway, I didn't like this system because it made it so that you could hear "a fire cackling" and also "popping noises" both from the same direction in one turn, if one fire was close by and another was more distant (the sounds would combine if they were the same string). This seemed unrealistic as the sound of the fire that is clear should trump the "popping noises" heard beyond it. I played around with ignoring sounds that are too quiet to hear because of the ambient sound level; like if you are currently hearing a very loud, continuous sound, you can't also hear the squeak of a mouse from across the room. The whole system I was setting up was making this all quite complicated and I decided to strip the system down.

Now, if you can hear something, you can hear it clearly; there is no second string for the hearing text. Sounds inside the view are not registered. I thought about having everything make a sound, like every time a monster moves it makes a sound. But in the end I decided to only have "noisy" things actually make sounds. Quiet noises are drowned out by the ambient noise or by the dampening walls or whatever. In addition, a majority of the monsters in the game could be deaf; they don't all need to be making noises with every move and also all listening for each other's footsteps every single turn of the game. That would not be worth the big hit to performance, obviously. So only the loudest monsters make footstep sounds and only attentive or stalkery monsters (and the player) can hear. Maybe I will even have certain sounds that can only be heard by the player, so they are not even registered in the same way that other sounds are.

The mouse now works in menus and in some prompts.

I decided to have two "drop item" actions: drop, and place. Drop costs less energy and just drops the item right on the floor where you are standing. Place costs more energy but allows you to put things on any tile adjacent to the player. Dropping things would break them if they were fragile and landed on a hard surface.

I am learning how to automate tasks using Python, so I automated backing up the game files.

Working on fire spreading, bio-weapons, potion quaffing, eating, and actions that take multiple turns to complete, as well as actions which can be interrupted...

I was considering having action "queues" that the player could stack up, like from their inventory, for example. Say the player wants to change a bunch of equipment. Rather than opening the inventory, picking and item, equipping item, and repeating; or rather than doing complex sequences of hotkeys, the player has a third option in addition to those. An "action queue" menu or option in the menu that allows you to add an action without leaving the menu. So you could drop a bunch of stuff from your inventory or change all your equipment from the inventory menu, then when you leave the menu, the player character begins performing all those actions in the order you set up the queue. If you are interrupted before completing all the actions, you can stop in the middle, leaving some actions incomplete. I'm not sure if this is worth implementing or not... what do you think? If I do implement it, it will be later in the development of the game, because I need to prioritize getting an actual game working (I've been spending so much time on all the tiny details).

Thanks for reading, and I'll keep updating as the game evolves.

