
arrow needs to be the exact right poundage for the bow you're using.
	Under spined: like a wet noodle
	Over spined (too stiff): not absorb energy right
	In both cases you get lowered accuracy
	To keep things simple, we could have 3 or so different arrow types instead of just 2:
		light arrow -- small game, light poundage bows <50lbs.
		standard arrow -- 50 - 100lbs.
		heavy (war) arrow -- 100-150lbs.
	Bolts are more forgiving; you can use the same bolts for any poundage of crossbow.

Big feather on fletching: less range but more accuracy.

3-pronged tip:
	high damage, lower accuracy
	+ damage to flesh
	high bleed damage
	
A good arrow is very expensive: $40 IRL

40m distance is the farthest away you can be consistently accurate against a human-sized target.
	75m is a good shot.
	175m is possible but it's a very impressive, difficult shot
	
Equipment / modifications for bows:
	Bracer on the arm holding bow: + accuracy, no chance to damage own arm w/ release of arrow
	Arrow release mechanism on loosing hand: + accuracy
		Or glove: not as good, but better than uncovered hand
	Sights: + acc
	Stabilizer: + acc
	
Panic fucks up your senses and your coordination big time, especially if you have no muscle memory.
	Fear: higher the value, lower the ability
	todo: get_ability func that factors fear, stamina/max, etc.
	
Crossbow: accuracy much less dependent on skill level
	Skill level makes much less of a difference than it does for bows
	Unskilled users can still accurately fire a crossbow at 100m. Impossible w/ a bow.
	At level 100 skill, bows are better; at level 0, crossbow are better.
	Skill points required should be lower: increase Sk Pts req. for most other skills
		And increase total Sk Pts.
	
	
Getting a bead on target:
	requires you to focus w/ tunnel vision on the target. Lose peripheral vision and hearing.
	
Arrow can over-penetrate and fly completely through a person, even if they're wearing soft armor. Might not even know what happened to you when the arrow hits you.
Bolts overpenetrate more often than arrows.
	Can draw bow at half-draw to reduce power.
	Some crossbows may allow you to draw at reduced power as well.
	
Sounds of arrow cutting the air
	If an arrow flies by you, you can hear it

Sounds in distance:
	remember the spot where sounds came from (use tilemap memories)
	location is more accurate the better hearing you have
	Animals can hear quiet things 200m away precisely!
	