
lockpicking

locks have a lock level which indicates how tough it is to open.
	range from level 1 to 200
	doors:
		standard door locks all have a low lock level around 10
		special locked doors can have higher lock levels
		vault door locks have high lock levels like 100
		idea: lock level for doors is deterministic based on location e.g. (x*7 + y) % 200
	chests/strongboxes/safes and other locking furniture:
		can have anywhere from shite locks to level 200 locks.
		
idea: types of locks
	class A - key lock
	class B - combination lock
	class AB - dual key/combo lock
	class AA - high-security key lock
	class BB - high-security combo lock
	variations on the above?
	(should there be varieties of locks and should there be different lockpicks for each different type? Probably NOT since we don't have varieties of different types of other tools.)
	Could do it where all locks are dual key/combo locks
		high-security locks could be indicated by some global tracker

tools / methods for opening lock
	key
		multi-use or single-use; locks or unlocks a specific lock
		key has lock-index(es) which is/are shared with the lock(s) it opens.
		can make keys using keymaking sets in 2 ways: either by copying a pre-existing key, or by molding a key to fit a lock.
		Keymaking requires crafting skills (to make the key) and lockpicking skills (to model the key)
	lockpick
		multi-use or single-use; can unlock any lock
		ability to unlock depends on lockpick quality, and lockpicking skill - against a random roll and the lock level of the locked target.
	torch
		torch level 3 or higher required
		destroys the lock
		takes 3 minutes
		only works on some locks - depends on quality and type of lock
	damaging the lock
		destroy the lock with a weapon
		if you kill the lock by damaging it enough, it will break, which can result in a stuck lock (semi-permanently locked), or if you're lucky it'll remove the lock.
	cutting tool
		destroy the lock with a cutting implement
		cutting level 9 or greater required
		may take a long time and a lot of strength / stamina
	